## CS-340

### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
The best way to write maintainable, readable, and adaptable programs are by building the code out in modules or classes as we did for the CRUD Python module. Since all of the read functionality was inside a separate file or class, we only had to update the class if we needed to make any changes throughout development. Creating separate and organized modules within the code base help when you need to modify existing sections or reuse code in different parts. When referring to the CRUD module, we could implement its create, update, and delete functions within the dashboard. This would allow us to make the data table even more interactable and provide more features.

### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
I approach a problem by breaking it down into smaller steps and tasks. For example, when creating the dashboard, I don’t look at everything and think, I need to make this work. I look at each section and only focus on one item at a time. This helps me avoid feeling overwhelmed by a project and keeps me on track to solving the problems at hand. Another strategy and technique I used and will continue to use in the future is asking for help. While I didn’t technically, reach out to someone and physically asked them a question, I asked for help by reading over the documentation and looking at other code that would use the class method or concept I was having trouble understanding. Furthering research on the topic and seeing first-hand examples of how the topics can be used in a real-world application – even if it had nothing to do with my current problem or project – helped give me a better understanding of how I can apply or adapt it towards my needs.

### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists analyze, design, and develop computer software to help themselves and others solve problems. They can help businesses of all industries tackle a problem and provide enriching solutions to better their business and needs. This matters because we are in the age of technology and there is a need for specialists like computer scientists to help pave the way for the future. The work on this type of project with Grazioso Salvare helps them make better decisions regarding their needs while sourcing rescue dogs from shelters. The dashboard cuts down time on searching for qualified dogs and presents everything in a readable format allowing the company to make an accurate and effective decision.
